SOLID design principles cover a good portion of not
only how to write well-designed code, but how to write code that's easy to test.
There are, however, a few other design considerations to take in account,
some of which are endemic to Spring.
A common smell I have seen,
and one that I have been guilty of plenty times in the past,
is the usage of field injection.
It's very tempting to use field injection,
as you don't have to gum up your code with constructors; however,
relying upon a field injection is a significant
impediment in writing unit tests.
Field injection means those tests must now rely on the Spring container,
which increases test complexity,
and also significantly slows down test execution speed.
Indeed, Pivotal team members say it best with a quote of theirs,
field injection causes a unit test to break every time.
So if field injection is bad, what should we use instead?
The most common and preferred answer would be to use constructor injection.
Typically outside of model objects,
all of a class's dependencies are required in order for it to function properly,
so writing a constructor that takes in as arguments all the
class's dependencies is a good design choice.
If you're concerned that a class is a large number of arguments,
you might want to review that class and ensure it's
following the single responsibility principle.
Finally, as of Spring 4.
3,
Spring will automatically detect an auto log constructor with
arguments if it's the only constructor in the class.
This is Pivotal's way of subtly nudging you towards making good design choices.
Setter injection is also an option.
I would recommend going this route only when a dependency is optional.
This is likely a rarity if you're writing an application,
but if you're writing a library that'll be used by others,
this might happen from time to time.
For mono classes, it can be good to provide a default constructor.
If you only need an instance of a class to exist,
but will not be expecting its contents within a test,
being able to simply new an instance of the class
decreases the burden of writing a test.
The builder pattern is useful if you want to enforce
constraints at the creation time for a class.
Here we have a name class.
Oftentimes first name and last name would be required,
but middle name typically will not be,
as well as other items common to the name domain like title and suffix.
Additionally,
builders are helpful when a constructor might have a
lot of arguments of the same type.
Again, going back to our name example,
all five fields mentioned would likely be typed as strings.
It could be confusing to the developer to know which argument goes where.
Reading it out it would go title, first name, middle name, last name, suffix.
But by importance it could be last name, first name, middle name, suffix, title.
There could also be issues in which the argument
order of the constructor is changed, which would not cause a compile error,
but could cause subtle and confusing bugs.
A final design consideration is to be wary of the use of static.
It can be tempting at times when a method's behavior does not depend upon state,
like for example when validating an object to declare it static; however,
this should be avoided as the use of static methods can
increase the complexity of your test.
Tests either have to be set up to account for the static method's behavior,
or a tool needs to be used to mock out the static method's behavior, both of which increase the time it takes to write a test and its complexity.